---
layout: home
description: "Phillip R. Polefrone's professional blog."
tags: [Jekyll, theme, responsive, blog, template]
image:
  feature: texture-feature-06.jpg
  credit: from Max Ernst, illustration for 'Une Semaine de Bont√©'
---

#Phillip R. Polefrone

I'm Phil Polefrone, a PhD Candidate in Columbia University's Department of
English and Comparative Literature. I work in three broad fields: 20th-century
American fiction, the environmental humanities, and the digital humanities. 

My research is currently somewhat bifurcated. On one hand, I read for what I
call the ecotopian imagination in American literature: instances of speculative
social ecologies in fiction, when narration of communal and physical structures
can also be considered a form of environmentalism. My work on this topic is
heavily informed by Marxist-inflected environmentalisms (think Paul Burkett,
John Bellamy Foster, and Jason W. Moore) and environmental justice. I write
about works like Charlotte Perkins Gilman's *Herland* and Willa Cather's *The
Professor's House* and *Death Comes for the Archbishop* whose descriptions of
physical space have major ramifications on the social commentary they provide.
This often leads me into work on speculative and utopian fiction, from Edward
Bellamy's *Looking Backward* to Ursula K. Le Guin's *The Dispossessed* to Kim
Stanley Robinson's *Mars Trilogy*. The articles I am currently developing
discuss the ecosocialist economy of *Herland* as it is determined by the image
of the garden and housekeeping and queer construction of new social structures
in Willa Cather's *The Professor's House*.

In addition to this more traditional written work, in my work on the digital
humanities I use natural language processing in Python to use and develop
distant reading techniques in American fiction before 1923 (and beyond, where
copyright restrictions allow). My most recent work has been focused on
improving automated location extraction and geolocation, which will allow me to
bring data extracted from literature into closer contact with environmental
datasets revolving around emissions, climate change, and environmental health.
My digital projects to date have been more focused on natural language
processing of literature in general, but this foundation is now allowing me to
focus on space and setting more exclusively.

This site hosts my DH projects and other professional resources, such as my CV
and list of publications. See below for updates and information about works in
progress. My CV can be found on the "CV" tag above, and projects are hosted on
the "Projects" tab and represented among the posts.
